    The most prominent cryptocurrency today is bitcoin, the first virtual currency and the idea of 
a digital asset based on blockchain. Being called digital currency, it’s more like cryptoart than
 actual money, though. 

    Most cryptocurrencies today are based on blockchain technology. There are, however, variants 
with modifications or crypto without a blockchain for the sake of energy efficiency.



The Future of Blockchain Technology

    Blockchain technology is already being replaced by Ouroboros blockchain and non-blockchain 
alternatives. But why do we need all these transformations?

    Bitcoin has its issues like scalability and blockchain size problems. Besides, the number of
bitcoins is finite. It means that with the reducing number of bitcoins left to mine, 
the cost of this crypto grows as well as the amount of power for mining and memory for storing 
the whole blockchain. Should the lack of energy efficiency harmful to the environment make 
bitcoin more expensive? Would you buy the least energy-efficient car for the highest price?

    Mining farms exist as long as it’s profitable for them to mine. So eventually, there will probably
be only the largest and richest ones left. And when they run out of new bitcoins to mine, 
they will no longer get mining rewards and may only benefit from transaction fees. 
So we basically will have crypto banks with high transaction fees. How is that different from 
what we have now in principle? Decentralised crypto is becoming centralised.

    Either way, bitcoin like every other cryptocurrency based on blockchain technology has to evolve
not to die, which may lead to transforming it into a totally new digital asset. 
Ethereum is no exception, since it’s not that different from bitcoin in general. In fact, 
it looks like a parody on capitalism with an endless supply of Ethers.

    But has it occurred to you that the idea of constantly growing blockchain, keeping the whole 
history of all deals inside, doesn’t actually make any sense? The point is that the ledger
is decentralised.

    A distributed ledger doesn’t have to grow, consume a lot of power, or use the proof-of-work
consensus mechanism. It doesn’t even have to be a blockchain. There are already various types of
distributed ledger technology, and blockchain is only one of them. But bitcoin still remains 
the most popular cryptoart because it was the first one. The idea is what matters. 

    The next-generation distributed ledger technology, the next step in blockchain evolution is 
Ouroboros – the alternative to blockchain and, most importantly, a new idea of cryptoart with 
open source. 

    Although there are already various crypto assets using the word “Ouroboros”, like Cardano’s 
Ouroboros proof-of-stake protocol or the Ouroboros cryptocurrency, Ouroboros “Manna from Heaven”
is conceptually different from them.

    You may already be familiar with the symbol of ouroboros – a snake eating its own tail that
is an eternal circle of life and death, past and future with the present moment in-between. 
Not only is this a beautiful concept, but also a great idea for blockchain transformation.



Ouroboros MFH Cryptoart Terminology

    The Ouroboros terminology represents a form of art, cryptoart.

    Manna from Heaven (MFH) – digital asset where 1 equals 1 manna, 0.01 of 1 manna equals 1 flake,
and 0.000001 of 1 manna equals the smallest particle – cell.

    Exhibit – something like an account or wallet, 43 characters.

    Vertebra – block.

    Keeper – a validator and a potential creator of a new vertebra. To become a keeper,
you need to have more than 9999 mannas in your exhibit.

    Bite – a period of time (minimum 20 seconds) during which a head “eats” a tail.



How to Connect to Ouroboros MFH

    You don’t have to use graphics cards or any other powerful rigs aside from a normal computer
because Ouroboros is optimised to be energy-efficient.

    To join the system as a keeper, you need to have an HTTPS website with a maximum of 3 levels 
for your domain name with only “www” on the third level that will be used as a node in the system. 
It is also required to use NodeJS and MongoDB for now.

    Create a new exhibit on letterevo.com, download the Ouroboros software, and connect it 
to your site. Then contact the administration of the site notifying it that you want to be 
a keeper and send your site’s name and the number of your exhibit. After checking your site, 
ten thousand mannas will be transferred to your exhibit. Then create another exhibit and 
transfer at least one cell to it from the first exhibit.

    While making the transaction, in the field “message” write your domain name in
the following format:
    <add>sitename.com

    If post requests on your site are available with "www", don’t count on redirecting,
write it with "www":
    <add>www.sitename.com

    Your domain length can't be equal to 43 characters not to be mixed up with the exhibit length.

    Should your site meet the requirements, it will be connected to Ouroboros automatically
by other keepers.

    If you want to join Ouroboros not as a keeper and get free mannas, create a new exhibit and
make a post about Ouroboros MFH on your site or social media account. Then contact the
administration of letterevo.com and send your exhibit number and the link to your post
in the letter. In a week, you’ll get 1000 mannas to your exhibit. If you make a video on your
YouTube channel, your reward will be 1 flake per 1 viewer of the latest videos of your channel,
but not less than 1000 mannas.

    First 500 keepers will get 10000 mannas each. It is necessary that all the keepers are from
different parts of the world, providers for the sake of decentralisation.

    First 10000 participants and influencers will get at least 1000 mannas in exchange for posts.



How Ouroboros MFH Works

    The concept of Ouroboros is a closed loop of vertebrae, blocks of deals, when the head vertebra
is brought to the latest block, compressing relevant deals and deleting obsolete ones.
Therefore, only the balance of exhibits is kept in Ouroboros while the transactions’ time,
messages will be deleted. It’s like getting rid of an archive. The problem of a constantly
growing blockchain is thus solved.

    Ouroboros’s algorithm is based on randomness, like chaos is regularised in nature. It uses
the proof of random democracy consensus, if you will. Each keeper’s node randomly sends
requests to other nodes to check its latest vertebra’s hash until it builds the whole ouroboros
up to the head – the latest vertebra at this moment. 

    Then the creator of the new vertebra is randomly selected according to the random seed that
is a hash of the previous vertebra. Randomness in virtual reality is predictable if the same
initial data is used again, but what the next hash will be, nobody knows.

    After he creates a new vertebra, other random keepers validate it, checking its hash, and
the creator gets one manna plus two cells per deal. 

    The more deals in a new vertebra, the more cells the creator gets, aside from one manna.
These transaction fees are extracted from the total amount of manna from heaven, one manna
from one side, two cells per deal from the other, reducing thus Ouroboros from both sides.

    The new vertebra is added to the blockchain, the length of which depends on the number
of deals. The half of the number of keepers determines the number of deals (maximum – 256) in
one vertebra.

    While an odd vertebra with deals is simply added to the blockchain, an even vertebra fires
the mechanism of Ouroboros by bringing the first vertebra or the tail to the latest vertebra
or the head and deleting the deals that were mentioned before and adding the new ones.
If there are no deals, the head will also bite the tail regardless of parity.
Ouroboros MFH is always moving forward.

    Each deal is bound to a certain timestamp. So make sure your computer uses the right time
so that your deals are valid. If there is no place for your deal in the current vertebra,
it will be put in one of the next vertebrae since its stamp is validated by your signature.
The maximal time for deal validation is 4 hours.

    A transaction from or to a certain exhibit is kept in one vertebra. The next transaction
from or to the same exhibit will be put into the next vertebra. It means that one exhibit
can be mentioned only once in one vertebra.

    Note that if you make a transaction to a non-existent or invalid exhibit, assuming that
the format of the address is correct, you’ll lose your mannas, it will be irretrievable.
This applies to all crypto systems.



Ouroboros MFH Security

    Blockchain’s length doesn’t protect it from fraud. Decentralisation, cryptography, and
consensus make it secure. Blocks are just convenient to process for a computer rather than
one massive document. 

    The consensus of Ouroboros is preserved by the unity of the program, which cannot be
changed by one for all because any changes must be validated by everyone randomly.
Even if there are several hackers, they can’t make false vertebrae be approved by everyone
as long as they are not the majority.

    Another neat feature of Ouroboros is that every node makes only requests. You won’t get
too many of them due to the limits. You can send a million requests, but it’s useless, you’ll
just waste your resources. No one can give you information without you requiring it.

    Ouroboros is designed in such a way that if a creator tries to harm the system intentionally
or even can’t answer a request due to some technical issues, he gets one strike. For example,
if a keeper that is supposed to be a creator at this moment, doesn’t create a new block, or
creates a wrong one, he will be banned by the next creator. Should he answer the request next
time, the strike will be deleted. After 8 strikes, he gets deleted from Ouroboros, being
replaced by the latest keeper. And the whole number of keepers is reduced by one.

    There is, however, no protection from fraudulent sites that can be cryptocurrency exchanges,
for example, because they have the access to your private keys that are used to create
the signature. It’s like when you use your credit cards in online shops. Interactions with
sites or apps are simply based on trust towards their creators, like you trust your bank.

    A professional coder, however, can check the code and find out whether a site uses functions
sending your private key to their server, in other words, stealing it.

    It's also better when your private key is created on the client side, like this mechanism
is used on https://www.letterevo.com/Ouroboros-MFH, for example.

    The best way to protect your private key is to make the page for transactions on your own site.
Any keeper can receive deals.



Ouroboros MFH in the Future 

    The economy is absurd because money is endless like the black hole of its depreciation
caused by dividends, rents, credits, and all sorts of speculative games, bursting economic
bubbles and making the rich richer and the poor poorer again. 

    Ouroboros on the other hand has a certain amount of manna from heaven (the maximum
32-bit number, unsigned integer) that will cease to be distributed among keepers as a reward.
This process may take a few thousands of years. The number is more than 4 billion. That is
a lot and can be counted as endless for us now. But still, what will happen with Ouroboros
in the future?

    Since the code is open-source, it can be upgraded in various ways. And future technology
will be far more advanced. Not to mention that society and economy will dramatically change,
assuming humankind will still be alive of course. 

    The monetary system that we have now will probably disappear in the next millennium, or even
in the next century. It is also hard to predict what will happen with cryptoart. It all depends
on how valuable the idea will be.

    But assuming that the world will be not that different from today’s reality by the time
Ouroboros shrinks to its singularity, and manna from heaven is over, will this cryptoart still be
valuable? It’s hard to say how it can be resurrected after its death. Should we worry if we will
not even be there to see it?
